# Senior-Seminar
There will be 5 days. In each day, the school will host six sessions for high school students. The student will have five top choices, ranking from the best to the worest. Therefore, this program will set up the sessions for individual students according to their choice, and it tries its best to optimize and limit the amount of conflicts for students to attend their desired sessions. Several factors have to be considered in this program, including the teacher availability, maximum session size of 15, limitations for sessions, and students' desires.

Here are several steps that I approached the problem
1. Arrange the raw data into a more clear version of the data and use BufferedReader to store the data, including the student information and the session information.
2. Loop through students' choices and use this information to figure out the popularity of a session. If a student chooses a session as his/her top choice, the popularity of such session will be incremented by 5. Similarly, If a student chooses a session as his/her last choice, the popularity of such session will be incremented by 1.
3. Now sessions can be placed into different time spots. If a session is more popular, it will get two time spots. On the contrary, if a session is less popular, it will be held only one time. There will be some human arrangments to ensure that no speaker will need to hold two sessions in one day.
4. After the time spot of each session is fixed, students can be put in. Every student will be looped through. For each individual student, there will be another loop that loop through five days. In each day, there will be another loop that loop through students' choices, from the most desired to the least desired. If one session successfully matches to a student's choice, that's great. If not, then that student will be added to a deque of unmatched students with student ID and the day that is unmatched. In either cases, the loop goes to another day and eventually goes to another student.
5. Now, only unmatched students of specefic days are left. A while loop will pull out unmatched students from the deque, and I (evilly) will place them into unpopular sessions of that day. This helps to balance of the lack of students in unpopular sessions. It is garenteed that the all students can be placed in one time spot everyday.
6. The schedulling is done, and for students to see the resulting schedule clearly, I will put all the information into two csv files. One file is for students, which gives five day schedule for an individual student. The other one is for both presenters and students, which gives a general sense of all the sessions and the presenters each day.

That's all! Thank you for reading this! I enjoyed the solving process of this project!
